Amendments to CCiW manual
=========================

We need a short section that notes CCiW's responsibilities to handle data
carefully, with a very brief summary of the main points. Rough first draft as
follows:

----


Data protection
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

As an organisation it is important to respect the data protection rights of
everyone involved in camp, including campers and officers. This is part of our
duty of love to our neighbours, and we have specific legal obligations too, as
set out in the GDPR and other data protection laws, which we must abide by.

In summary, in terms of the application of these laws to our activities, the
main responsibilities we need to be aware of are as follows:

* We should collect only the personal data that we need to do our job, and keep
  it only as long as we need to.

* We must use this data only for the agreed purposes for which we've collected
  it.

* We should not pass the data on to third parties, or allow non-authorised
  people to access it.

* We must take particular care with certain more sensitive data, such as
  information about past criminal records that are part of the officer
  application process.

* We must report data breaches to ICO and the "data subjects" (the people the
  information is about) in certain circumstances.

In all of these things, we need to take into account our other responsibilities,
and ensure the primacy of the well-being of campers that we look after.

The trustees have the responsibility to ensure our practices and policies are in
line with the good of our campers and officers, and data protection law. A
helpful GDPR checklist that the committee should read is found in the ICO
document `Data Protection by design and default
<https://ico.org.uk/for-organisations/guide-to-data-protection/guide-to-the-general-data-protection-regulation-gdpr/accountability-and-governance/data-protection-by-design-and-default/>`_.

There are specific duties that fall to different members of CCiW, which are
detailed in other places:

* Web master/web developers: see the "Security and data protection" manual that
  is in the CCiW source code:
  https://gitlab.com/cciw/cciw.co.uk/-/blob/master/docs/security.rst

* Leaders: STATUS:TODO

* Booking secretary: `04 DBS Officer Manual <04%20DBS%20Officer%20Manual.rst>`_

* DBS Officer: STATUS:WIP

The trustees will be responsible for answering any queries regarding use of
personal data not covered in these manuals, and they will use resources
including the following to adjust our policies as needed in the future:

* https://gdpr-info.eu/

* https://ico.org.uk/for-organisations/in-your-sector/charity/charities-faqs/

* https://ico.org.uk/for-organisations/guide-to-data-protection/guide-to-the-general-data-protection-regulation-gdpr/


----

We will need a new section about CCiW Chairperson and CPO's responsibilities as
follows. I'm not sure where this should live.

From what I've gathered, we do not have a documented process for this, possibly
because the situation hasn't actually occurred before. I've therefore drawn
up a draft of what I thought it should be.

``STATUS:QUESTION`` This is one of the most sensitive parts of our processes,
and should be carefully reviewed. It may help us to get some expert advice on
this. We need to carefully balance: 1) vetting officers properly 2) respecting
their privacy and GDPR legislation 3) protecting ourselves regarding legal
cases, 4) giving both sufficient structure and flexibility to a process that is
hard to anticipate since we have very little experience of this situation.

----

DBS responsibilities for Chairperson and CPO
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

When a DBS check reveals a criminal record, in most [all?] cases the DBS Officer
will contact the Chairperson and CPO for a decision regarding the officer's
suitability for camp. In this case, the Chairperson and CPO must do the
following:

* Come to a decision about whether the officer should be accepted on camp or
  not. They may choose to contact the officer and other people in order to come
  to their decision, while taking into account the privacy rights of the
  officer.

* If the decision is to refuse the officer, they must communicate this to the
  camp leader, but normally without disclosing details of the criminal
  convictions they have learned about. It will be the camp leader's
  responsibility to tell the officer.

* If the decision is to accept the officer, they must communicate this to the
  DBS Officer. They may feel it is appropriate to pass on to the camp leader
  some information regarding the conviction, if they consider this to be
  important for ensuring the well-being of campers, officers or leaders on the
  camp.

* They must fill in a document using the template provided on Google Drive. This
  document should have its permissions set so that it is accessible only by the
  'Committee' group.

  If the decision is a "No", normally it will be sufficient to record this fact.
  Since the officer will not be coming on camp, further details are not
  necessary, and it is our policy not to store more details than necessary. The
  purpose here is primarily to be able to demonstrate that we are checking DBS
  results.

  If the decision is a "Yes", normally more detail will be needed. The primary
  audience of this information is people who in the future may want to know the
  reasons why we accepted the officer. In particular, if in the future an
  allegation is made concerning this officer, the information in this document
  may be relevant to law enforcement, and we want to be able to cooperate with
  them as fully as possible, and also to be able to demonstrate the carefulness
  with which we have acted.

  It is intended that the information here will be kept indefinitely.

----

The template mentioned above should look something like the following:

----


DBS Decision
~~~~~~~~~~~~

* Date:
* Officer:
* Name of Chairperson and CPO Officer, and any others making the decision:

* Decision: accept/reject?

* Reasons (if accepting):

* How much (if any) of the information about a criminal conviction was disclosed
  to camp leaders, and why?

